{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14660\viewh10060\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Comments to the Author\
The introduction of derivatives on Bitcoin enables investors to hedge risk exposures in cryptocurrencies. Because of volatility swings and jumps in cryptocurrency prices, the traditional variance-based approach to obtain hedge ratios is infeasible. As a consequence, the analysis considers two extensions of the traditional approach: first, different dependence structures are modelled by different copulae, such as the Gaussian, Student-t, Normal Inverse Gaussian and Archimedean copulae; second, different risk measures, such as value-at-risk, expected shortfall and spectral risk measures are employed to find the optimal hedge ratio. Extensive out-of-sample tests give insights in the practice of hedging various cryptos and crypto indices, including\
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Cardano, the CRIX index and a number of crypto-portfolios in the time period December 2017 until May 2021. Evidences show that BTC futures can effectively hedge BTC and BTC-involved indices. This promising result is consistent across different risk measures and copulae except for Frank. n contrast, the analysis observes complex and diverse dependence structures between BTC-not-involved assets and the futures. As a consequence, the results of hedging other assets and indices are diverse and, in some occasions, not ideal.\
\
This has been an interesting paper that provides some new and fresh information on how crypto derivatives (futures) can be used in hedging activities. The paper, however, needs some final touches before any possible publication. In particular:\
- the authors need to explicitly explain the economic benefit of modifying the original version of the lemma under consideration\
- they also need to provide the justification of selecting the Copulae methodology against others\
- why the Covid-19 period starts in 2019? Officially the period starts Feb/March 2020.\
- I would also recommend a formal break test that can explicitly determine the pre- and during Covid-19 periods\
- the conclusion section just repeats the previous findings, while an extensive discussion of the implications are needed and for what stakeholders or policy makers\
- Some minor English-language proofing is also needed\
}